# Dementia-ML
Detection of Dementia using machine learning and python 

Introduction & Rationale: 
Neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's and Dementia have been identified as one of the greatest threats to public health by the WHO. One of the major challenges in neuroscience is to understand the subtle ways the brain works, changes or adapts, which ultimately provides an insight into the basis of neurological disorders. This has been traditionally tackled by a bottom-up approach, where hypotheses driven by findings at the level of local neuronal populations are tested at larger scales. Neuroimaging has been widely used to study brain functions at the largest scale – whole brain level. But the brain, being a highly complex system, cannot be fully explained by the strategy of “putting together individual parts to make up the whole”. This calls for the use of data-driven methods in conjunction with hypothesis-driven approaches to understand the dynamics of the brain as a whole. The recent successes in the application of deep learning (DL) to computer vision present a strong case in favor of its application to high-dimensional neuroimaging datasets. In this context, the main objective of the project is to develop a DL framework for identifying biomarkers using neuroimaging data to improve our understanding of neurological disorders, and ultimately aid development of optimal intervention strategies.

Methods: For preliminary work, we are using previously collected EEG data of 59 patients suffering from Alzheimer’s disease; seven patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 102 controls. We are currently using the Hidden Markov Model (HMM) to compute signal complexity and temporal dynamics of transient events across wideband data (0 - 50 Hz). Further, the features extracted by the HMM model will be used to train a ConvNet model to differentiate between different stages of the disease group and also to classify between healthy and patient population. In future, we would like to collect our own data with Muse EEG Device and will repeat the same analysis to investigate the reproducibility of our model.
